---
title: Module Entry Points
weight: 2
---

The following describes the entry points that a Synchro module may export. Most functions exported from a Synchro module share the following parameters:

* `context` - An opaque context object that should only be used for passing to other API entrypoints that require it.
* `session` - The current session.
* `viewModel` - The current viewModel object.

# View

    exports.View = { ... };

The `View` is an object representing the view template for the module.

# InitializeView

    exports.InitializeView(context, session, viewModel, view, metrics, isViewMetricUpdate)

The `InitializeView` entrypoint is optional. The view is typically provided by the exported `View` object, but this entrypoint can be implemented
if you desire to either modify that View, or generate your own view, from code. Any View defined by the exported View object will be passed to this
function (if no `View` object was exported, that value will be undefined).

This entrypoint, if present, is called both on rendering of the initial view template, and whenever the ViewMetrics change (such as when the
orientation of the device or viewport of the app changes). The `isViewMetricUpdate` boolean parameter to this function signals why the entrypoint
was called.

# InitializeViewModel

    exports.InitializeViewModel(context, session, params, state)

The `InitializeViewModel` entrypoint is required. It must generate and return the initial view model object.

# LoadViewModel

    exports.LoadViewModel(context, session, viewModel)

The `LoadViewModel` entrypoint is optional. It is used if there is additional processing required on the initial view model after it has been
generated by `InitializeViewModel` and passed to the client.

# OnViewMetricsChange

    exports.OnViewMetricsChange(context, session, viewModel, metrics)

The `OnViewMetricsChange` entrypoint is optional. It is called when the view metrics change, such as when the orentation changes, or when the
application viewport size changes.

# OnViewModelChange

    exports.OnViewModelChange(context, session, viewModel, source, changes)

The `OnViewModelChange` entrypoint is optional. It is called when the view model has been changed, either by the client or by the server. The
`source` parameter indicates wether the change was generated by the client or the server.

# OnBack

    exports.OnBack(context, session, viewModel)

The `OnBack` entrypoint is optional. If it is present, it is called when the user triggers the back mechanism on their device (either in the
app command bar, via a hard back button, or using some other platform-defined behavior).  

If the navigation action is performed inside of `OnBack`, then it should return `true`.  If `OnBack` is implemented and does not return `true`, the
default back navigation action, `Synchro.pop()`, will be performed.

# Commands

`Commands` is a dictionary of user-defined entrypoints that may be called from various controls which bind to them.

    exports.Commands =
    {
        sampleCmd: function(context, session,  viewModel, params)
    }
